-You're a gentleman for
coming at such a last notice --
last-minute notice
to our program.
Can you --
Walk us through this, please.
-Well, first,
I'll say one thing.
As a surgeon,
I have learned in my career,
if you tell people the truth
that's gonna hurt a little bit,
they get prepared...
So, there's a lot of good news
out there,
but some of the information that
we're getting is a little scary.
So I'll give you both sides.
-Okay.
-And then I think
people can act.
But the big message here
is we can do this.
We've mobilized
as a nation before.
We can, without any question,
buy ourselves the time we need
for the public health system
to get better,
for ERs to catch up
to get enough ventilators,
for the government to figure out
what they're going to do.
But only if the people who can
hear my voice right now act,
are we gonna buy ourselves
the time?
Because this pandemic
is spreading so rapidly
that a lot of our leaders
are of the belief
that we're gonna have most of
the population of this country
infected within a year.
-Hmm.
-Now, that's a problem.
But it's also a problem because
we don't have the resources
to take care of half the people
in the country.
So by slowing down transmission,
we completely change
what the future can be.
-So we have to slow down
the transmission.
That's our goal right now.
What is coronavirus?
-So, there was a bat virus,
we believe,
that got married to a virus
that's more comfortable
in humans,
and those two viruses had kids,
and they sort of
pieced it together,
and one of those kids
had the ability
to infect us in ways
we never imagined possible.
It probably happened around
that wet market in Wuhan
that everyone talks about,
but now this new virus
is something
we've never seen before.
So no one
actually recognized it.
Our immune system
can't fight it off.
So we don't have any firewalls
to protect us.
Thankfully, it doesn't seem
to affect young people at all.
Most of your viewership,
folks under the age of 60,
are gonna do just great
with this thing.
There hasn't been a death
in a kid under the age of 10.
-Oh, okay.
-So fantastic.
It doesn't seem to hurt
pregnant women quite as badly.
So that's all good news.
The bad news is that
folks who are older --
Once you get past 60,
if you have other illnesses,
hypertension, cardiovascular
disease, diabetes,
lung problems,
so if you smoke --
If you're smoking or vaping,
please stop.
This is a good excuse.
-How can people
not panic about this?
-Well, you don't panic
for two reasons.
One, you help other people,
which always works.
Do folks a favor,
and it takes a little bit
of the pressure off you.
But if you actually
know the facts --
What you fear the most
is what you don't understand.
-You know what I did see
that I really enjoyed?
I follow you on Instagram.
@Dr-Oz.
You put up this what's called
a survival protocol.
Check this out.
This is really interesting.
If you want to, go to his
Instagram, Dr. Oz's Instagram.
Or where else do you have this?
On your website?
-It's at droz.com. It's --
We got stuff on YouTube.
But let me just explain
something real quick.
I wanted people
to have extra steps.
If there are things you can do,
you'll be perseverating
in your mind,
ruminating about
what's going on.
So there are lifestyle things
you gotta do
like sleep and exercise.
There are things you gotta do
in terms of hygiene.
When you wash your hands,
most people don't wash
their hands right.
Show me how you wash your hands.
[ Laughter ]
That's terrible!
-Right. Like that. Like this.
-No. I'm gonna show you how
a surgeon washes their hands.
-Cool.
-Because what --
You're washing the back
of your wrists, right?
-Yeah.
-That's not important.
It's your fingers
that touch your face.
So, after you get the soap
on your hands,
you do the Turkish twist.
You go like this.
Rub the fingers in there.
-Okay.
-Right?
And then you gotta do
the Tony thumb, right?
Rub the fingers, the thumbs.
Opposing digits.
Seriously. We learned this
in medical school.
-I know. I just don't
want to end up a meme.
-Okay.
[ Laughter ]
And then grease the palm.
Grease the palm.
-Yeah.
-All right. Both sides.
That's 20 seconds.
Wash your hands,
use the paper towel
to turn off the sink and to get
the door open and exit.
-Really?
-But if you do that,
that one issue by itself
halves the chance
of you getting the coronavirus,
we believe.
Just washing your hands.
-Just washing your hands.
That's it. 'Cause I just --
This is good to know.
This is good stuff to know.
And exercise?
-Exercise counts.
You got to eat the right foods.
And you do have to stock up
because here's
what's going to happen.
Let me paint the picture
for you here.
So, everyone's traveling around.
They've been in public events
over the last couple days,
so they may have already
gotten the coronavirus.
So if you start to feel a high
fever or a lot of lethargy,
tiredness with that.
-Okay.
-If you have a dry cough --
or some people get diarrhea --
then there's a reasonable chance
you got coronavirus.
So please don't go rushing off
to the emergency room.
You'll completely overwhelm
the system.
Just call your doc
if you're worried.
-Stay home.
-Stay home, though.
Just socially separate yourself
from everybody else.
Social distancing
is the entire solution here.
If we can just accomplish
that one goal,
then we'll be over the top on
this baby, because then we'll
be able to slow down
the progression of this.
And I'm so optimistic about the
treatments we're figuring out.
The work-around immunizations
is progressing nicely.
It's all good news there,
but you got to buy us time.
People watching right now
can do that.
No one else can do it for you.
-Thank you so much
for coming on.
You're a gentleman. Thank you.
Dr. Oz, everybody.